# Marathon-Chronicles-map
Split map files for an in-development Marathon Aleph One scenario

This is where I’m keeping the latest version of the unmerged map for *Marathon Chronicles*, a scenario I’m building for Marathon Aleph One. It is a sequel to Bungie’s original *Marathon* trilogy, and it is also additionally intended to flow in the same continuity as several other fan sequels to the original game, most directly *Tempus Irae* and *Rubicon*, but also *Phoenix* and *Eternal*. It incorporates artwork and, in some cases, architecture from *Tempus Irae*, *Evil*, and *Rubicon*, as well as the original trilogy, though most maps are largely original.

While I hoarded all this content to myself for, in some cases, some twenty-one years, I now intend for the development process of this scenario, like Aleph One itself, to be largely open-source. As a result, anyone who is interested in contributing to or improving the project is welcome to make their own pull requests; if I like them, they will be incorporated into the completed game and you will receive credit.

Some links:

· You will need Marathon Aleph One to play this: https://alephone.lhowon.org/

· Project thread at the Pfhorums: http://pfhorums.com/viewtopic.php?f=13&t=53553

· YouTube playlist with gameplay videos: https://youtube.com/playlist?list=PLoysJW6pXQ6nZP5tQN3ExHCnQhF6F5_Yk&disable_polymer=true

· Latest published versions of all game files apart from the map: https://www108.zippyshare.com/v/Z2qj9oBL/file.html

(The map included in the final link is out of date; you can make your own build of the latest version of the map by merging this folder in Atque. I intend to create a more permanent repository for the game files somewhere else at some point, but I have not done so yet. It will not be practical for me to keep uploading the latest merged map file every time I make a small change, so you will need to merge it yourself if you want the most recent version.)

This project is in a very unfinished state; most game terminals are blank, and there are plenty of glitches, inconsistencies, untextured or misaligned walls, and various other issues to be expected in an in-development game. It should at least be possible to play through and win the entire scenario, however, and hopefully the bonus levels as well (though I haven’t tested those since I added them).

I haven’t yet compiled a complete list of credits for this scenario. I’m responsible for the bulk of level design; a few other high school friends, who are credited in the scenario images file (click on the Marathon logo when you open the scenario), co-designed a few levels (specifically “Anthems to the Welkin at Dusk”, “Everyone I Went to High School With Is Dead”, “Delusions of Adequacy…”, and the hidden level “Sweet Silence”, plus “Witty Title Not Included” from the net map). I haven’t mentioned them by name because I don’t know if they want their names showing up in search engine results in association with this scenario. If you’re really curious who designed what level, almost all levels have credits in the map writing, hopefully including every level co-designed by others, at least in the solo scenario.

Other levels are partially adapted from work by Bungie. I haven’t pulled together a complete list of credits for this, but between these and my net maps, I’ve incorporated levels designed by **Randy Reddig** (“Ne cede malis” for “Biblical Candy Machines”, “Aye Mak Sicur” for “Eon Blue Apocalypse” and “Pfhactory N’Utopia”, co-design of “Poor Yorick” for part of “Master of Puppets”, “A Converted Church in Venice, Italy” for both “Death in Venice” and “A Converted Net Map in Venice, Italy”, “You Think You’re Big Time? You’re Gonna Die Big Time!” for “Life Is Wasted on the Living”), **Greg Kirkpatrick** (co-design of “Poor Yorick” for part of “Master of Puppets”, co-design of “Son of Grendel” for “How to Disappear Completely”, “Hang Brain” for part of “Kill Your Sons”, “Acme Station (Michael Bay Remix)”, “Charon Doesn’t Make Change” for “Transport Is Arranged”), **Chris Geisel** (co-design of “Poor Yorick” for part of “Master of Puppets”, co-design of “Son of Grendel” for “How to Disappear Completely”), **Jason Jones** (“Begging for Mercy Makes Me Angry!” for part of “Kill Your Sons”, “The Slings & Arrows of Outrageous Fortune” for “Thanatos, Beneath the Dust”, “Kill Your Television” for “Ys”), as well as a few other recurring elements from levels designed by multiple creators (most notably, Thoth’s computer banks make an appearance in “Anthems to the Welkin at Dusk”). I’ve also incorporated occasional geometry from others’ scenarios for network maps: **James Hastings-Trew**’s designs from *Tempus Irae* for “The Gates of Delirium” (“Slaughtergarden Suite”), “Downward Spiral” (“Cathedral of Hate”), “Brain Damage” (“Lunatic Fringe”) and **Chris Lund**’s for *Rubicon* (the original *Rozinante* design for “Cygnus X-1” and “Breathing Nothing at All”/“Canned Air” for “Fracture”). Finally, **RyokoTK** has kindly given me permission to adapt his level “Monument to All Your Sins” (aka “The Monolith”) for solo combat; a very embryonic form currently appears as “In the Shadow of Our Pale Companion”.

Beyond that, of course, there are levels I’ve simply ripped off, more or less remaking them in my own image. Credit to **RyokoTK** for “Roquefortress”, which I shamelessly ripped off for “To Make an Idol of Our Fear and Call It God”, and **James Hastings-Trew** for “Gates of Delirium”, which I shamelessly ripped off for “The Black Angel’s Death Song”. “Black Angel” may reuse a couple of architectural elements of “Gates” outright with only small cosmetic changes; for that matter, a couple of segments of “Houses of the Holy” are also fairly similar.

Artwork is trickier. Obviously most of the original assets were Bungie’s; credits should be visible in the scenario already when you click the Marathon logo. I’ve also incorporated graphics from others’ scenarios. The *Tempus Irae* textures and scenery, probably 80% of which appear in *Chronicles*, were mostly designed by **James Hastings-Trew**, apart from the ones adapted outright from Renaissance or Classical artists (mostly Leonardo da Vinci, but occasional others as well). **Chris Boroweic** and **Dan Clancy** are also credited for additional artwork in *Tempus Irae*. There are also elements from *Evil* (the staff, the assault rifle, the Devlins) and *Rubicon* (several monsters, the fusion rifle, the redesigned Magnum, the redesigned rocket launcher). **Randall “FrigidMan” Shaw** was the project director of *Evil*, and he is also listed in the artwork credits alongside **Chuck Fox**, **Jesse Freeman**, **James Head**, **Colin James**, and **Randy Reddig**. **Chris Lund** and **D. Scott Brown** were responsible for the bulk of *Rubicon*, including artwork, with credits to **Grant Struthers**, **Jay Faircloth**, **Stefan Stadlberger**, and **Mayang’s free texture library** for additional artwork. I don’t believe I’ve taken artwork from any other scenario, though it’s possible that a scattered texture or two from *Pfh’Joueur* appears; that scenario, artwork included, was created largely by **Candace “Shebob” Sheriff** (RIP), who credited **Rainier Udelhoven** for additional artwork.

I’ve also used sounds from other scenarios, again mostly *Evil*, *Tempus Irae*, and *Rubicon*. *Rubicon* credits **Chris Lund** for the bulk of the sound (**Elohymn Vilaven** is credited for the title music and *Ascension* theme, which, to my knowledge, I didn’t use, but I wish to make these credits as complete as possible). *Tempus Irae* credits **James Hastings-Trew**, **Chris Boroweic**, **Beth Boroweic**, and **Kain Osterholt** for sounds (plus **Shawn Magee** and **Rich Wilcox** for music, which, again, I doubt I used). *Evil* credits **Johnny Biebesheiemer** and **Randall Shaw** for sounds (plus **Mark McWilliams** for music; yet again, I probably didn’t use this).

Most level titles are taken from songs or albums, with a few others from books or television. Only a handful don’t come from musical or literary sources. For inspiration, credit to (*deep breath*) **Tears for Fears** (“Sketches of Pain”, “Famous Last Words”; note that the former of these is inspired by Miles Davis and Gil Evans’ album *Sketches of Spain*, and I intend my level title as a reference to both), **Emperor** (“Anthems to the Welkin at Dusk”, “With Strength I Burn”), **Weakling** (“Cut Their Grain and Place Fire Therein”), **Panopticon** (“Revisions of the Past”, “To Make an Idol of Our Fear and Call It God”), **William S. Burroughs** (every “Naked Lunch” level), **Television** (”The Dream’s Dream”), **Mr. Bungle** (“Everyone I Went to High School With Is Dead”), **Peter Gabriel** (“Here Comes the Flood”), **the Velvet Underground** (“The Black Angel’s Death Song”), **the Mars Volta** (“Miranda, That Ghost Just Isn’t Holy Anymore”), **Genesis** (“Entangled”, “Supper’s Ready”), **Elton John** (“Burn Down the Mission”), **Porcupine Tree** (“Deadwing”), **Soundgarden** (“Room a Thousand Years Wide”), **Radiohead** (“2+2=5 (The Lukewarm)”, “How to Disappear Completely”), **Metallica** (“Master of Puppets”), **the Wallflowers** (“Another One in the Dark”), **Arcturus** (“Nightmare Heaven”), **Lou Reed** (“Kill Your Sons”, though this title is also partially inspired by Bungie’s terminal at the end of the level, which was probably written by Greg Kirkpatrick), **Godspeed You! Black Emperor** (“Motherfucker=Redeemer”), **Isaac Asimov** (“Star’s End”), **Tears for Fears** (“Famous Last Words”), **Tool** (“Eon Blue Apocalypse”), **Gorguts** (“Sweet Silence”, though this level title is also partially inspired by Metallica’s studio in Copenhagen), **Bob Dylan** (“It’s Alright, Ma (I’m Only Bleeding)”), **Nobuo Uematsu** (the absolutely execrable pun “Dancing MADD”, for which I apologise in advance; it’s got to be worse than Pfhor puns), ***Star Trek*** (“Errand of Mercy”, which was written by Gene L. Coon), **Jeff Buckley** (“Dream Brother”), **Pavement** (“Transport Is Arranged”), ***Secret of Mana*** (“Thanatos, Beneath the Dust” was partially named in honour of its villain) **Agalloch** (“In the Shadow of Our Pale Companion”), **Il Balletto di Bronzo** (“Ys”), **Joanna Newsom** (also “Ys”; the title is in honour of both albums as well as the mythical underwater city after which both are named)… oh, and also the net maps. These don’t as consistently follow this rule, but **Douglas Adams** (“Cathedral of Hate”, “Life Is Wasted on the Living”), **Thomas Mann** (“Death in Venice”, though I must admit I still haven’t read it; I just felt the title was apropos for a netmap based on “A Converted Church in Venice, Italy”), **Rush** (“Cygnus X-1”), **Blut aus Nord** (“Dialogue with the Stars”), **Spiritualized** (“Ladies and Gentlemen We Are Floating in Space”), **King Crimson** (“Starless and Bible Black”, “Fracture”), and **Sigh** (“Slaughtergarden Suite”) inspired a few. I may rename a few others at some point, but I haven’t done nearly as much work on the net maps because I don’t currently have people to test them out with.

The appearance of others’ artwork and map designs should not be interpreted as their endorsement of this project; in many cases, I have not specifically contacted them in decades, and in a few cases, I have not yet contacted them at all, though I plan to do so if possible before releasing a more complete version of this scenario. With that caveat aside, I would like to thank **James Hastings-Trew**, **D. Scott Brown**, and **RyokoTK** (**Alex Bolton**) specifically for their permission to use various assets they’ve created. My usage of their assets should not be taken to imply they approve of everything I’ve written or created, but I am certainly grateful for their permission to use their assets; their work has made *Chronicles* a better game.

I also wish to thank several others for assistance at various stages. **Hamish Sinclair** sent me some of **Doug Zartman**’s previously unreleased Bob sounds; you can hear them in this project. It’s also quite unlikely this scenario would exist at all without his Story page, and the Vidmaster page he co-maintains with **Jim Mitchell** is a major reason I don’t completely suck at this game anymore (additional thanks to anyone whose films appear on the page).

I don’t believe any of **Mike Trinder**’s assets appear in this scenario apart from the airlock in “Anthems to the Welkin at Dusk” and a handful of other levels these days, but I gained a colossal amount of inspiration from his approach to map design, and while I no longer have my correspondence with him, I’m almost certain he gave me specific information about how to solve some mapmaking dilemmas I’d encountered, though I no longer have any recollection of what they were.

Various members at **the Pfhorums** have been immensely helpful at solving problems I’ve encountered, especially **Treellama**, **ravenshining**, and **Wrkncacnter**. **General-RADIX**’s feedback has also affected my approach to some of these levels (especially “Anthems”).

It’s unlikely the map design for this scenario would be as good without **Hastur’s Workshop**, a mapmaking page created by **Doubleaught Software** back in the day; I also incorporated **Randall Shaw**’s forcefield idea in a few points.

I’d also like to thank everyone whose utilities I employed in the creation of this scenario – especially **Hex!** and **Fux!** by **Bo Levenson** (the latter of these no longer affects the scenario, but it did when it ran in *Infinity*), and **Chisel** by **Kirill Levchenko** and **Mike Trinder**. Aleph One mapmaking tools I’ve used include **Weland**, **Vasara**, **Visual Mode.lua**, **JUICE**, **ShapeFusion**, **PhysicsEditorOne**, and probably a handful of others I’ve already forgotten; I may at some point attempt to compile a list of everyone involved in developing them.

Most of my planned story isn’t yet incorporated in these levels, though I would like to note that a bizarre occurence of synchronicity resulted in my original story outline closely mirroring the actual plot of *Rubicon X* in several respects. Because I never released the scenario to the general public in any form until 2008 and didn’t release it to the *Marathon* community at large until 2018, I’m unsure if I’ll continue using my original outline – in particular, I very definitively do not possess the time or the inclination to make enough resources for the branching timelines I originally planned. My original decision to incorporate two timelines was very likely inspired by the ending of **Mike Trinder**’s *Gemini Station*, though I planned this so long ago (most likely still within the 20th century) that I no longer remember the exact inspiration.

Apologies if I misspelled anyone’s name. I double-checked all the spellings, but I can’t promise that I didn’t misread them.

The final thanks I wish to give, of course, are to **Bungie** for open-sourcing everything *Marathon*, and for that matter for creating it in the first place, and to everyone who’s ever worked on **Aleph One**.

Lastly, as an aid to people going over the Pfhorums thread/YouTube channel, since several levels have changed names at least once over the course of development, here’s a log of their old names:

**Take the Veil Cerpin Taxt**: formerly “The Inner Light” and “Anthems to the Welkin at Dusk”;
**Pleiades’ Dust**: formerly “Noli pati a scelestis opprimi” and “Illegitimi non carborundum”;
**Revisions of the Past**: formerly “Life Seeker”;
**Everyone I Went to High School With Is Dead**: formerly “Welcome Home (Sanitarium)” and “Pine View (Hell)”;
**Miranda, That Ghost Just Isn’t Holy Anymore**: formerly “Houses of the Holy”;
**The Paradox of Tolerance**: formerly “Burn Down the Mission” and “Idioteque”;
**Men Like Ravenous Fishes**: formerly “Deadwing” and “Inside Information”;
**Room a Thousand Years Wide**: formerly “Tighter & Tighter”;
**To Make an Idol of Our Fear and Call It God**: formerly “Please Excuse Our Dust”;
**Neon Valley Street** formerly “2+2=5 (The Lukewarm)”

I hope you enjoy this scenario. Comments, suggestions, constructive criticism, praise, offers of employment, submissions of content, pull requests, Vid films, etc., are all highly welcome. You can contact me at:

· **the Pfhorums**, where my username is currently The Man: http://pfhorums.com

· **Fool’s Gold**, where my username is currently Howth Castle and Environs: http://fools-gold.org

· or, presumably, here.

Aaron
